[autolinking] Use NodeJS to resolve autolinking script location & popularise it among other imports (#13901)
expo/expo: packages/expo-modules-core/README.md

No additional set up necessary.

# Importing native dependencies - autolinking

> React Native libraries come with platform-specific (native) code. This native code has to be linked into the project or
> configured properly. These actions require some modifications to the native project files. One of the steps that have
> to be done with the native configuration is to enable autolinking mechanism that takes care of including any supported
> module's native code into the project. Below we preset the configuration that should be manually applied to the
> project's native files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many React Native libraries come with platform-specific (native) code. This native code has to be linked into the project and, in some cases, configured further. These actions require some modifications to the native project files. One of the steps that has to be done with the native configuration is to enable the autolinking mechanism that takes care of including any supported module's native code into the project. The following configuration is required:
```

no need to add newlines here. better to leave it without newlines so it wraps based on editor width.

also -- we probably want to move this to the docs when we start to roll it out. we can replace https://docs.expo.dev/bare/installing-unimodules/

### iOS

> > Caution! After successful file modification you have to run `pod install` again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Caution! After you have made the following changes you will need to run `pod install` again.
```

```ruby
# Podfile

require File.join(`node --print "require.resolve('react-native/package.json')"`, "../scripts/react_native_pods")
require File.join(`node --print "require.resolve('@react-native-community/cli-platform-ios/package.json')"`, "../native_modules")
require File.join(`node --print "require.resolve('@unimodules/react-native-adapter/package.json')"`, "../scripts/autolinking")

#  ...

target "TargetName" do
  use_unimodules!
  config = use_native_modules!
  use_react_native!(:path => config["reactNativePath"])

  # ...
end
```

### Android

```groovy
// app/build.gradle

apply from: new File(["node", "--print", "require.resolve('react-native-unimodules/package.json')"].execute().text.trim(), "../gradle.groovy")
apply from: new File(["node", "--print", "require.resolve('react-native/package.json')"].execute().text.trim(), "../react.gradle")

> apply from: new File(["node", "--print", "require.resolve('expo-updates/package.json')"].execute().text.trim(), "../scripts/create-manifest-android.gradle")

Reviewer: we'll need to update scripts for detecting expo-updates installation to reflect this. also will need to update expo-updates installation instructions: https://docs.expo.dev/bare/installing-updates/

// ...

apply from: new File(["node", "--print", "require.resolve('@react-native-community/cli-platform-android/package.json"].execute().text.trim(), "../native_modules.gradle");
applyNativeModulesAppBuildGradle(project)
```

```groovy
// settings.gradle

apply from: new File(["node", "--print", "require.resolve('react-native-unimodules/package.json')"].execute().text.trim(), "../gradle.groovy");
includeUnimodulesProjects()

apply from: new File(["node", "--print", "require.resolve('@react-native-community/cli-platform-android/package.json"].execute().text.trim(), "../native_modules.gradle");
applyNativeModulesSettingsGradle(settings)
```

### Explanation

> On both platforms the files you have to reference in the native projects are usually placed under the root
> `node_modules` directory. However that's not always true, as libraries providing the scripts might be placed almost
> anywhere in the project (monorepos edge case). In order to always properly reference the files we take advantage of
> the NodeJS's dependency resolution strategy. We invoke subprocess that spawns the simple javascript script that tries
> to locate the module providing the wanted scripts. On `iOS` we use [`` ` ` `` (backtick)](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3159945/running-command-line-commands-within-ruby-script)
> ([alternative reference](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.2/Kernel.html#method-i-60)) and on `Android` we use [String[]#execute](<http://docs.groovy-lang.org/latest/html/groovy-jdk/java/lang/String[].html#execute()>)
> to obtain the results from the subprocess' stdout. The javascript that is spawned is using [`require.resolve` method](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v14.x/docs/api/modules.html#modules_require_resolve_request_options) to obtain the location
> of `package.json` served by the dependency (if you look for the module location using solely module name, you'll be
> given the path to the file pointed by the `main` attribute from the `package.json` and we need to know the location of
> the module's root directory). Given that we easily build up the path to the desired script and execute it accordingly.
> You can read more about the scripts and libraries used in the examples above in their official READMEs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scripts that are referenced in Gradle and Cocoapods are usually found the related package inside the project's `node_modules` directory. In the case of monorepos (such as Yarn workspaces) the project directory may not contain `node_modules` at all; instead, the modules are likely to be located at the root of the repository. In order to ensure that both cases are supported, we take advantage of the Node dependency resolution strategy. We invoke a subprocess that spawns the simple JavaScript snippet that tries to locate the desired npm package containing the script we need.

- On iOS, we use [`` ` ` `` (backtick)](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3159945/running-command-line-commands-within-ruby-script) ([alternative reference](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.2/Kernel.html#method-i-60)).
- On Android, we use [String[]#execute](<http://docs.groovy-lang.org/latest/html/groovy-jdk/java/lang/String[].html#execute()>) to obtain the results from the subprocess' stdout.

The Node process that is spawned runs [`require.resolve`](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v14.x/docs/api/modules.html#modules_require_resolve_request_options) to obtain the path to a module's `package.json`(if you look for the module location using solely module name, you'll be given the path to the file pointed by the `main` attribute from the `package.json` and we need to know the location of the module's root directory). We then assemble the path to the desired script and execute it.

You can read more about the scripts and libraries used in the examples above in their official READMEs.
```
